## Imane Lamine / 09/10/2021

## Executive Summary
The computer was never a new tool that have been recently created. For a matter of fact the computer was created to make our life easier and get our tasks done faster. The first recorded idea of using digital electronics for computing was the 1931 paper "The Use of Thyratrons for High Speed Automatic Counting of Physical Phenomena" by C. E. Wynn-Williams. From 1934 to 1936, NEC engineer Akira Nakashima published a series of papers introducing switching circuit theory, using digital electronics for Boolean algebraic operations,influencing Claude Shannon's seminal 1938 paper "A Symbolic Analysis of Relay and Switching Circuits".
In 1935 Alan Turing wrote his seminal paper On Computable Numbers, with an Application to the Entscheidungsproblem in which he modeled computation in terms of a one-dimensional storage tape, leading to the idea of the Universal Turing machine and Turing-complete systems.The first digital electronic computer was developed in the period April 1936 - June 1939, in the IBM Patent Department, Endicott, New York by Arthur Halsey Dickinson. In this computer IBM introduced for the first time, a calculating device with keyboard, processor and electronic output. From that time IBM kept growing and developing until now days that everybody has his own pc (personal computer) and able to upload his own content.
## Information System Components
An information system has five components.
First, computer hardware which is the physical technology that works with information. Hardware also includes the peripheral devices that work with computers, such as keyboards, external disk drives, and routers. Second computer software, software can be divided into two types: system software and application software. The primary piece of system software is the operating system, such as Windows or iOS, which manages the hardware’s operation. Application software is designed for specific tasks, such as handling a spreadsheet, creating a document, or designing a Web page. The third component is telecommunication. This component connects the hardware together to form a network. Connections can be through wires, such as Ethernet cables or fiber optics, or wireless, such as through Wi-Fi. A network can be designed to tie together computers in a specific area, such as an office or a school, through a local area network (LAN). If computers are more dispersed, the network is called a wide area network (WAN). The Internet itself can be considered a network of networks. We also have databases and data warehouses. This component is where the “material” that the other components work with resides. A database is a place where data is collected and from which it can be retrieved by querying it using one or more specific criteria. A data warehouse contains all the data in whatever form that an organization needs. Databases and data warehouses have assumed even greater importance in information systems with the emergence of “big data,” a term for the truly massive amounts of data that can be collected and analyzed. Human resources and procedures are the last component of the information system. This component of information systems is the human element: the people that are needed to run the system and the procedures they follow so that the knowledge in the huge databases and data warehouses can be turned into learning that can interpret what has happened in the past and guide future action.
## GitHub
GitHub is a provider of Internet hosting for software development and version control using GitHub, Inc. is a provider of Internet hosting for software development and version control using Github.
### Client - Server Architecture
Client–server model is a distributed application structure that partitions tasks or workloads between the providers of a resource or service, called servers, and service requesters, called clients.
### Cloud Computing
Cloud computing is the on-demand availability of computer system resources, especially data storage and computing power, without direct active management by the user. Large clouds often have functions distributed over multiple locations, each location being a data center.!
## Conclusion
Through the course of this lab, I learned about the course requirements for IT1025 as well as an overview of client-server architecture and GitHub. I found GitHub quite hard in the beginning however with some practice and help from my instructor I was able to use it easily. I look forward to learning more about database and GitHub.
